Now let's discuss CloudWatch alarms.
So alarms, as we know, they're used to trigger notifications
from any metric.
And you can define complex alarms on various options
such as sampling or doing percentage or max/min and so on.
Alarm has three states.
OK means that it's not triggered.
INSUFFICIENT_DATA means that there's not enough data
for the alarm to determine a state.
And ALARM, which is that your threshold has been breached
and therefore a notification will be sent.
The period is how long you want the alarm
to evaluate for on the metric.
And so it could be very, very short or very, very long
and it can apply also to high resolution custom metrics.
For example, 10 seconds, 30 seconds,
or a multiple of 60 seconds.
Now, alarms have three main targets.
The first one is actions on EC2 instances,
such as stopping it, terminating it, rebooting it,
or recovering any instance.
The second one is to trigger an auto-scaling action.
For example, a scale out or a scale in.
And the last one is to send a notification
to the SNS service.
For example, from the SNS service,
we can hook it to a Lambda function
and have the Lambda function do pretty much anything we want
based on an alarm being breached.
So now let's talk about composite alarms.
Because we know that CloudWatch alarms
are on a single metric,
but then if you wanted to have multiple metrics,
you would need to use composite alarms
because composite alarms are actually measuring
the states of multiple other alarms
and these alarms can be each relying
on one different metric.
So the composite alarm is the action of combining
all these other alarms together.
And you can use AND or OR conditions
to be able to be very flexible
in terms of the condition you're checking for.
So it's very helpful to reduce alarm noise
because you can create complex composite alarms and saying,
for example, if the CPU is high and the network is high,
then don't alert me because I only wanna know
when the CPU is high and the network is low,
this kind of things.
So let's take an example.
We have an EC2 instance
and we're going to create a composite alarm on top of it.
So therefore, we create a first underlying alarm
called Alarm-A which is going to monitor the CPU
of the EC2 instance.
Then you create Alarm-B
which is going to monitor the IOPS of the EC2 instance.
And then the composite alarm
is defined as the junction of Alarm-A and Alarm-B.
And therefore, if Alarm-A is in ALARM
and Alarm-B is in ALARM,
and this is something we have to define ourselves,
then the composite alarm itself would be in ALARM
and can trigger, for example, an SNS notification.
So as you can see,
you can get quite creative with the composite alarms.
So let's talk about EC2 instance recovery.
We've already seen it,
but there is a status check to check the EC2 VM
and the system status check to check the underlying hardware
and you can define a CloudWatch alarm
on both of these checks,
so you will monitor a specific EC2 instance.
And in case the alarm is being breached,
then you can start an EC2 instance recovery to make sure,
for example, that you move your EC2 instance
from one host to another.
When you do a recovery,
you get the same private, public, and elastic IP,
the same metadata,
and the same placement group for your instance.
And you can also send an alert to your SNS topic
to get alerted that the EC2 instance was being recovered.
Now, the CloudWatch alarm has some good stuff to know.
First of all is that as we've seen, we can create an alarm
on top of a CloudWatch Logs metric filter.
So remember, the CloudWatch Logs are having a metric filter
which is hooked to CloudWatch alarm.
And then when we receive
too many instances of a specific word,
for example, the word error,
then do an alert and send a message into Amazon SNS.
And so if you wanted to test alarm notifications,
you can use a CLI call called set-alarm-state.
And this is helpful when you want to trigger an alarm
even though it didn't reach a specific threshold
because you wanted to see whether or not
the alarm being triggered
results in the correct action for your infrastructure.
So that's it for alarms, I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture for some practice.